it takes me about twice as long they get
everything set up whenever I do it just
good call it's completely fine okay
and so what's your name friend Zach or
asmin gold
whichever what what do you prefer uh
let's go what's good about that okay
cool
nice to meet you Zach I'm I'm although
for some people call me dr. kay I guess
most people don't see doctors who but
you can call me all look or whatever you
prefer
it's not all maple it's all oak all oak
okay perfect just like the original Sun
script okay awesome man
so Zach I don't everyone is super
excited that we're talking and I'm not
sure exactly why but they seem to be
super excited do you have any idea I've
had a very interesting history I mean I
think that I don't know if you've looked
at any of my previous stuff at all but I
think that one of the most I guess
famous or I guess infamous things about
me is my room has always been very dirty
and so a lot of people correlate that
with something being wrong with you or
something like that and sure they did
they probably think that something like
that has to do with it I do have to
disappoint people though my room
actually is pretty clean right now
though I apologize okay so I mean but
what do you think it what conclusions do
people draw about the dirtiness of your
room in you ah basically that I don't
have my life together it's a complete
mess I'm depressed I I think so don't
not having my life together my life
being a complete mess for most of my
life that's probably true but okay the
part where yeah yeah I mean let's be
real
but depressed mmm hard to say III don't
really think depressed is the right word
what would you use to describe it there
oh I mean like there I I think it's just
lazy
obviously like yeah yeah lazy I think
that's really the main thing like there
have been times that I have been
depressed about certain things sure had
medical problems with my parents I've
had you know ups and downs in my stream
things have made me depressed like
situationally but not gone I believe
like a mental level sure so help me
understand what what what do you mean by
lazy so there is one time that my alarm
went off in my in my room I was like
tired to wake up and die instead of
turning off the alarm
I let the alarm go for two hours maybe
three hours until the arm died okay can
you hold on just one second yeah my
Boomer ass needs to make a phone call
because I may be doing something wrong
thanks for being with me and I
appreciate it it's no problem then
usually trendex it's okay it's okay five
minutes okay cool we fix it all right so
you're saying sorry I think we're good
now so you you said that you were you're
lazy because there was a yes I think
that was just it's more or less a
metaphor of how lazy I am why am i lazy
because it's easier to not do anything
than do something that's fundamentally
what it is and I'm I'm very good at
adapting the things whenever they go
wrong I grew up very poor so if a light
goes out I just stopped using that room
yep that's that's how that's pretty much
it and sorry this is the last
interruption I promise I just got a tea
delivery how convenient that's great yes
it's actually really awesome um so tell
me you said that you learned how to
adapt by like you know something breaks
like you just learn how to live without
it yeah like I've had a box fan duct
tape to the side of my PC whenever I my
fan on my graphics card broke because I
couldn't afford a new one I literally
had a bike with one pedal whenever I was
a kid I I mean there's plenty of other
examples but yeah I mean I grew up
pretty poor so I'm just used to you know
if things don't go the way that I want
them to that's okay and I just do
whatever I can
and
when you so where did you grow up if you
don't mind me asking Austin Texas okay
we're in Austin whereabouts uh I don't
like to say okay cuz like oh yeah yeah I
don't but I I grew up in a poor part of
Austin not not forget very poor I don't
want it make sound like this is a rags
to riches story it's just a thrift store
clothes to riches story or maybe not
quite riches but slightly more
successful than I was sure and are you
still yeah I know I'm not supposed to
ask people kind of where they live but I
I get excited about people who are in
Texas because I grew up in Texas East
Texas went to school in Austin I'm back
in Texas now really happy to be back
here awesome
yep yeah before I before I stopped
before I started streaming I actually
was planning on going to to UT law or
maybe Baylor good thing on which one I
would get accepted to cool it then I
decided to uh play World of Warcraft
instead can you tell me a little bit
more about what and growing up was like
sure I actually to be to be honest with
you I actually really enjoyed my my
experience growing up trend I had a lot
of like really great memories and uh in
a way I'm almost sad that I can't just
relive it now honestly like I had I was
surrounded by all my friends my family
my parents were well in general I was
very happy oh yeah
yeah I mean like there were negatives of
course there were negatives but if I
look back on it I I can't say that I
regret a thing sure yeah I think one of
the most confusing things for people is
that they assume that being poor means
that you're you will grew up unhappy and
also that being rich means that you grew
up happy or that you are happy and one
day we weirdest things that I remember
there was used to work in jail and I was
just really surprised because I had one
patient so I would work in to jail like
basically one day a week and you know I
had like a clinic outside of the jail so
I had like regular quote unquote regular
patients and then I would see people in
jail and one of the things that really
struck me is that I had a guy who was an
invest
banker and like he was suffering just
about the same as the dude who was in
jail and it was like a really weird
thing to like realize but if you really
just asked me like how much is this
person suffering on a scale of one to
ten both of them were suffering the same
amount and also the Burghley huh
successes of prison I you know it's
funny you say that but I think that I've
been working a lot with people with
impostor syndrome recently and I think
in a sense that really can be which I
know is bizarre I think there's a lot of
gatekeeping around suffering and who's
allowed to suffer and also gatekeeping
around happiness because like who are
you like if you grew up and you were
poor like how can you possibly be happy
like how does that work I completely
agree with you I know that um so this
happened I've taken a number of breaks
from streaming about like three
technically but two like more popular
ones and or more known once and before
that I was streaming a games a classic
Wow and I my stream was seeing success
that had never seen before like I was
getting up to like a hundred thousand
viewers and I had like thirty thousand
subscribers it was very very very
successful but I was actually enjoying
myself a lot less and I was whenever I
had you know comparatively only like
twenty five or thirty thousand viewers
playing before classic Wow it came out
and I I realized at that point that
there were a number of times that I had
wanted to go after and like meet a
certain goal so I think my main goal
that I'd always wanted to hit was 10,000
like average viewers are hitting 10,000
viewers period and then once I hit that
goal I didn't really feel anything it
didn't feel good and it's always been a
pursuit of doing more and more and more
and I think that after I did classic Wow
and I had that experience with which is
what you're saying with the investment
banker and I was doing so well and I was
so unhappy and I was stressed out and
not enjoying myself I realized that you
know there might be a little bit more to
this and what do you think is what what
is that more I would say like
since a purpose internal fulfillment
maybe something like that uh uh you know
for me personally I I always felt like
in a way that I kind of embody something
that's in a way like kind of meaningful
to a lot of people and they want to
watch a stream and see that kind of
exists and for many people I might
represent you know remind them of an old
friend or you know maybe an opportunity
that they didn't have of being Who I am
you know I'm a guy I'm you know almost
30 now and I play video games all day I
live with my mom and I would say that in
many regards I'm quite content not all
but many regards I'm quite content and I
think they don't number people like kind
of resonate with that because for many
of them it's a road not taken' and I I
feel like I kind of had this
responsibility as being a creator of
being that person for other people out
there who didn't really have the
opportunity to do that and more so also
for younger people because video games
were very transformative and whenever I
grew up and I think that the experience
that I had playing World War Craft
whoever I was 16 17 you know around that
age you don't really have the same
experiences and abilities to you know
prove yourself as an individual you know
you're a 16 year old loser 17 year old
loser who cares what you think
but the moment that I got put on even
playing field with everybody else you
know like kids there were 12 and guys
that were as old as my teachers and I
was able to succeed in that I think that
built up a lot of self-esteem and
confidence with me and because of that I
feel like I've always tried to promote
that type of environment for other
people because it was so impactful and
meaningful for me and it's oh oh go
ahead no go for it
oh well so whenever I was doing what I
was doing in classic Wow and playing it
the way that I was and having the type
of stream atmosphere I felt like
fundamentally I had moved away from that
and I think that was a big problem yeah
do you think about this stuff a lot oh
yeah I make videos about it constantly
III think about it a lot I I lay in bed
I I think all the time oftentimes I'll
lay in bed and instead of like watching
a movie I'll just sit there and think
yeah I really appreciate I appreciate
you as a thinker
I I try to be I mean I feel like it's
something that's not as common nowadays
and I feel like people feel like they
need to have like an external type of
validation or external type of mike-mike
reinforcement
uh well a viewer account is like a very
guess yes like of your account basically
but it goes with everything it's like
people that feel like oh they're not
doing enough in their real life or
they're not meeting these standards
according to what celebrities are doing
on on Instagram they're not making
enough money compared to their friends I
think this is you know it's prevalent
throughout everyone yeah sounds like a
very comparative world here describing
oh yeah I mean I think everybody is
being compared especially with social
media you know you have so many
quantitative measurements of a person's
perceived value mm-hmm that it's very
unhealthy so I would love to hear you
talk more and at the same time I'm I'm
kind of trying to remember or hold on to
the idea that sometimes people hear you
know a lot of our audience I think
benefits from people sort of sharing
their personal stories as opposed to
intellectualizing or philosophizing
which i think is certainly valuable and
I'm curious is there something in
particular that you'd want to talk about
today that you maybe want to work on or
want help with or want to better
understand sure um I think that if I was
gonna go with anything I would say the
failure to commit to things and the
failure to actually execute on plans
that I have okay I've had a number of
plans and I think I'm probably a victim
of my own laziness more so than a lot of
other things and like there are a number
of like ideas I've had for streams that
I just haven't really done for example
I've had like technical difficulties
with my stream that have just existed
for months now and I just ignore them
and they diminish the quality of the
stream and the weird thing about it is
that whenever I actually go through and
I clear out all my message
or I do something like that I don't
really like you know I'm not really a
agoraphobic or anything like that but I
also like to be alone and so you know in
some ways I don't really like going and
uh talking to people and I just want to
be left alone basically and I I do that
for a while and then I think a lot of
people can probably relate to this is
that I won't respond to somebody for a
while
and then I won't respond to them after
that because I feel like it's outside of
the normal societal expectation or you
know later yeah it's too late now
oh man too bad you know I guess I'm just
gonna ignore it again and so I've I've
done that a lot and it's been a problem
I think with a lot of like kind of
friendships I've had and everything like
that and also like kind of focusing on
my stream a little bit too much I think
really burned me out before and I used
like kind of the metaphor of and this is
in my 2017 or 18 of I metaphorically
killed myself Zach and I became asmin
gold right and I focused entirely on my
stream and I stopped dealing with you
know the people and and everything like
that and coming back I've wanted to be
more of who I am really and I think
that's been something I've been working
on but it's hard to do that whenever
screaming can be very stressful it's a
very emotionally draining job sometimes
and it's sometimes I do feel like kind
of after I finished my stream I just
want to sit there by myself even though
that's not necessarily what I should do
I think that twice sure to delete why
should you do that well because I feel
like it's kind of like what I was saying
a minute ago
whenever I was talking about how
whenever I would see someone or talk to
someone and do the thing that I was like
kind of putting off doing and I would
actually do it I would feel better at
the end but the anticipation and like
kind of the the wanting to do it or not
wanting to do it overwhelmed that and so
you I was basically prolonging a
negative feeling and preventing a
positive feeling sure that's always been
like a big problem that I've had like
with schoolwork
with everything yes oh yeah let me just
see if I kind of cuz I think there's you
know Zack there's a lot every time you
speak there's actually a lot there and
so let me try to unpack a little bit
about what I heard and maybe how we can
focus things are you feeling okay I'm
feeling great okay so the first is that
you said something around a failure to
commit and what I'm gonna kind of zero
that in on is like how can we understand
what is laziness like what is laziness
where does it come from
another thing is sort of this idea of
like failure to respond so that you have
certain duties or things that you should
do right so let's talk a talk about it
as the problem of should right yeah and
it's kind of like I should do this and
like you know that something is good for
you but you can't seem to do it and so
how the [ __ ] does that like you know
it's gonna be good for you you know
you're gonna feel better and then you
have like you have two options in your
mind right you can prolong negativity or
we can let go of negativity and become
positive and it's like why on earth
would you never pick prolonging
negativity well the problem with me is I
go for a third option where I ignore the
negativity I pretend the problem isn't
real and I just go on my day and I'm
like hey this is great I'm happy and
I'll might do it tomorrow or the next
day or you know I'll do it at some point
in the future and this never really
happens since that you know I put things
off for like a year yeah so like like
it's almost like a willful distraction
oh you're not really interacting myself
yeah so how does that work and then the
third sort of theme that I'm hearing is
something around burnout in the war
between Zack and asmin gold which like
that that topic I'm happy to talk about
but we like literally talked about that
on Wednesday with this guy named Jake
and baked and we talked about the war
between Jake and Jake and bake oh I I
think that you'll have that conversation
with every streamer I have had that
Congress with every streamer so so I
feel like that one is sort of I'm happy
to have it again because I
think it's fascinating and we can sort
of you know zero in on different nuances
and and try to understand what's unique
to someone and what's common but I think
that maybe there's a little bit more
mileage to be gained over this idea of
laziness in this like failure to respond
willful distraction like those are the
two buckets that I think could be you
know I could try to tackle with you
let's do something different
okay so what do you want to what you
want to talk about laziness or you want
to talk about the willful distraction ah
I think that they're kind of both things
oh yeah I get that they're connected so
like let's pick a direction
um I think probably just laziness
because London as I said I'm I'm
generally a Content person it's very
easy for me to be content with things
whether they're great or bad and I am
you know I am what I am and so I don't I
I don't really worry about doing a lot
of things I guess it's kind of weird I
can I'm very good at just forgetting
problems and just not thinking about
them sure so you you sound you seem to
me to be happy Zack are you happy yes
sometimes I'm not always happy there are
a lot of things that make me very sad
but there are yeah I'd say overall I
wake up in the morning and yeah so let
me rephrase so I think happiness and
sadness are emotions
yeah I guess what I'm talking about is
like so happiness can sometimes be
referred to is like an existential thing
or an emotional thing
I get the sense just listening to you
that your eggs essentially healthy even
though you may not be emotionally happy
at times I am until I think about dying
then yes I would be the only thing oh
yeah I think about it a lot what do you
think about dying oh that's that's it's
a bad time what's bad about
well there are two things that can
either happen
you can either exist forever in eternity
or you cannot exist forever
and I think both of them are equally
terrifying what's terrifying about them
the human mind cannot process infinity
you can't understand what infinity is or
at least I can't and the uncertainty of
it because I've thought about this a lot
and I've thought to myself I used to be
very very afraid of this and it doesn't
matter what happens it doesn't matter
what you do it doesn't matter what you
can do you can be mother Teresa Adolf
Hitler or you still end up in the ground
and there's no running from it or hiding
from it or anything and I don't know
exactly how I never really knew exactly
how to understand that and I thought to
myself I was like well if God would come
down and tell me you know hey I'm real
all this [ __ ] that you read in that book
that's a hundred percent true and you're
gonna be you're gonna be just fine
would that make me feel good well I
thought about that for a long time and I
thought yeah it would and then after a
few years about thinking about that
maybe five or ten years thinking about
that I thought wouldn't that also be
kind of scary because that means that
your entire existence is premeditated do
you really exist if you're a construct
of somebody else's goals they said I'm
saying yeah I see what you're saying
just give me a second okay
so what's scary about not existing for
eternity I don't know it's a weird thing
because every once in a while I'll I'll
get to the point of you know I don't
know I can lighten meant where I'm not
bothered by that but also there are
times where I'll lay in bed and be
terrified and the only thing that I can
ever do to really reassure myself is to
remind myself that I am a hyper
intelligent monkey that doesn't really
know what's going on with the world
that's the only way I can ever ever make
myself feel good about it okay remind
myself I don't know I'm gonna toss out a
third bucket and I think this bucket is
probably the lowest yield bucket but
maybe you know maybe somewhat
interesting and that's like what's the
deal with death so you know I think this
is tricky because like generally
speaking I I have a particular so I
think about it as a Padma a duty so I
think about having like a duty to the
person that I speak to and I just try to
think about you know every time I stream
so there's also all oak and dr. K right
like so I have that struggle too and I
the way the simple way that I get rid of
that struggle is I think a little bit
about like I just think about okay what
is all oak doing what does dr. K do dr.
K streams to like you know thousands of
people and tries to do a Oh a healing
and all that kind of good stuff which is
fine and great and Noble and fantastic
and all that kind of stuff but all it
just tries to help like just random
people that he talks to and anytime I
talk to someone I just think about what
can I do for this person mm-hmm now I'm
I'm running into a little bit of a
problem because all oak and dr. K are
fighting right now and what all oak says
is that I would love to talk to you
about death in the nature of existence
and and what happens after we die and to
give you a sense of give you a road or a
road map to finding peace around this
issue and then dr. K says that I don't
know how applicable this is going to be
a lot of the people watching or probably
struggling with laziness and having a
multidisciplinary understanding of
laziness in terms of spirituality the
function of the mind yoga meditation
psychology neuroscience and like sort of
be like the science of behavior is
probably gonna help more people because
like that's people are lazy I here's how
I look at it go for I'm a very pragmatic
person uh-huh and there have been many
philosophers over the thousands of years
Jesus Buddha Confucius Nietzsche and you
know all these people who tried to
explain and you know philosophize about
death I don't think we're gonna get any
farther in this call well yes I mean I
completely agree with you but I think
the reason that we're not gonna you
haven't you don't think we're gonna get
anywhere in this call is because you
think what does a philosopher I think
the reason that you don't have answers
is because you're looking for them in
the wrong places
really where do you think I should look
so let's think about this for a second
where does knowledge come from
experience okay so how many
conversations can you have how many
people do I have to talk to about having
sex before I understand what it's like
to have sex it depends on what they tell
you so like let's okay so like you know
what could they tell me that wouldn't
help me understand what having sex is
like like how many people could I talk
to uh well I mean I I think that I I
don't know I mean I think that you're
implying that you have to see it
yourself is that right no I mean so
you're the one who said that that I
asked you where does knowledge come from
and you said experience and so then my
response was like okay how many people
do I have to talk to to understand what
sex is
uh well I mean I think it depends right
I mean you're gonna have first-hand
experience of actually doing it yourself
and that's very direct knowledge and
then you'll have second hand experience
what a second experience mean there's
somebody telling you like a man I hooked
up with this girl and it was great you
know and this is what happened is that
experience uh yeah I mean I guess yeah
is it not do you think that it's not no
I wouldn't call it experience I'd call
it words
right so Sanskrit has two words for
knowledge one is Vidya Vidya is
objective transmissible and also like
information another word for knowledge
is neon which is subjective experience
all and non transmissible yeah okay yeah
that makes a lot of sense so first-hand
experiences neon secondhand experiences
you call it is Vidya it's something that
can be exchanged between two human
beings do you feel like the two of those
one of them is more visceral than the
other absolutely because one of them is
subjective and one of them is subjective
one of them is completely visceral and
the other one is not visceral at all
yeah right I understand that so so
you've been grappling with the problem
of death for a long time and have you
been approaching it from video from Jung
I've tried to do both okay so tell us
about that um well I've I've considered
like reading different like you know
what do you call it like different like
holy books right I've thought about I've
always been that ready yeah
do you need a refresher on the
definitions well I mean I guess you
can't I mean I've never died yeah I
think sleeping is the closest thing that
you have today sure and I've always kind
of used that is a little bit of a you
know a smaller metaphor of that and in a
way I guess you could say that I have
had experience because before 1990 I did
not exist okay yeah yeah hey so yeah so
okay so let's think about this for a
second do you do you fear what you were
before 1990 I've done this one myself no
not really no I don't then why do I hear
what happens after you die because what
happened after 1990 didn't happen before
I never had the experience that I had I
never had the the friends I had I never
had the emotions I had I never had the
the yeah experiences and okay then yeah
everything so so so then then we can see
so that's a subtle but important point
right because then what we're talking
about is that your attachment or your
avoidance of death is out of an
attachment of life that you're really
you're really your only complaint with
before 1990 is that you didn't have the
[ __ ] that you have now ergo what you
what you want to avoid is you don't want
to lose what you have net no I don't so
that's so if we think about so then it's
sort of like it's sort of immaterial and
now it sort of makes sense right because
you kind of said if there's life after
death and there's eternity of
consciousness then that's scary and if
there isn't consciousness that's equally
scary therefore we can conclude that
like what you're afraid of has nothing
to do with whether you exist or not
after you've done what you're afraid of
good right because the bumps that those
options create the same reaction to you
it's all the same whether your life ever
after I've decided which one is more
terrifying yet yeah but they're both
terrifying
so like therefore we can conclude
logically that like the terror doesn't
come from either of those things because
that doesn't make any sense
mm-hmm so then then and we hear and what
you said it's just consistent with your
earlier feeling right which is that what
you're afraid of is the loss of what you
have it's an attachment it's not about
like what happens to you after you die
it's not like about your consciousness
it's the lack of the experiences that
you have today that you're afraid of
yeah and I I did a thought experiment
with this and I thought about this a lot
what would happen you know how would I
feel if basically whenever you died your
soul was effectively recycled and all of
your experiences were wiped and you just
did it all over again and I still don't
really know how I feel about that yeah
because your what is a thought
experiment is it been the early on I
think it's
on attempting to be Vidya its Vidya
attempting to manana
oh I must have gotten them yes I forgot
I'm confused right so so it's it's like
it's thinking your way it's like it's
like a thought experiment about sex is
not an orgasm so like like you can think
you're wet and this is why I think you
don't think that the conversation is
going to be productive because you're
thinking that the answers are gonna come
from the conversation the answers aren't
can come from the conversation all the
conversation is gonna do hopefully is
give you a roadmap to experience because
I don't think you know how to do that um
no maybe not yeah so then I guess this
is what we're talking about you want to
go back to laziness we wanted to do this
uh I think that we can do this maybe a
couple more minutes and then we can go
back to laziness I'm okay so let me a
couple more minutes oh okay yeah let's
see what we can do so so let me let's
start by sort of saying that like do you
do you follow me that I think that your
your fear of death is is not a fear of
what's beyond it's a fear of loss of
what you have now it's a fear of the
loss of life so much so that I actually
I I whenever I was very young I began
recording a lot of the things that I did
whenever I was a kid and I want a video
camera whenever I was 11 years old
because I had the foresight then I
realized that you know I thought to
myself I can't really remember what
happened whenever I was 6 but I always
want to be able to preserve and keep the
memories that I had and I've always done
that so I would never forget yes so
you're holding on to life absolutely
right and so then if you want to conquer
your fear of death I notice it sounds
[ __ ] like a meditation calendar but
what you really have to do is let go of
your attachment of life that's no saying
about the moments of enlightenment yeah
so so now let's talk about that like
what does that even mean a moment of
enlightenment what does that mean when
you confront things that you're
completely afraid of but for whatever
reason you're not afraid of them you you
look at
the you look at death in the face you
look it for me a dentists or wasps these
are two things I'm very afraid of and
you know you look at that and you just
do it and you you approach it and you I
don't know like really what the best
word is for it but yeah I don't think
internalize is it but you let it become
part of you and you accept it as a
reality that's okay to be the best way I
could verbalize it yeah so so then let
me ask you let's ask some questions
about the quality of moments of
enlightenment so you say they're moments
ergo it's not permanent right yeah so
what fluctuates between a moment of
enlightenment in a moment of not
enlightened uh I I don't really know
because the weird thing about the
moments of enlightenment is that
sometimes I'll feel that way whenever
things are going very well and I'm happy
and other times I'll feel that way where
I don't care about dying or anything
like that whenever things are going very
not well and I think that's really kind
of interesting because both ends you
know the both ends of the horse-shoe
meet at the same place nearly and I
think that's what happens okay excellent
so that's a very important observation
that the current state of emotions does
not affect the moment of enlightenment
and in fact the beauty of the moment of
enlightenment is that allows you to
experience both of those extremes with a
certain tranquility yes right so like
that's pretty cool so now we can think
about a couple of things so the first
thing that we figured out about moments
of enlightenment is that they fluctuate
it's not a permanent state it's not like
you know when you're leveling up and Wow
like once you hit level 14 you're no
longer Bumble 14 right you're never
gonna be level 13 again we think about
life is sort of a linear progression is
it not well there are moments of
enlightenment linear progression a
it's more or less an acceptance and a
just a complete acceptance of the linear
progression III think more so
okay so I'll unpack what that means in a
second but like like let me just point
out to you that like even in your words
right you call it a moment of
enlightenment it doesn't imply a linear
progression it implies temporary because
it's a moment oh yeah right so so the
first thing that we can understand about
moments of enlightenment is that they
fluctuate so it's not like you level up
and then you're more enlightened than
you were the day before it's not a
permanent game it's a fluctuates of
consciousness I do feel like learning
more things and having more experiences
and thinking more does help me have them
more often them but there's a very
important subtlety there right okay you
can level up your capacity to some of
them more often but they in themselves
are not permanent that's a big
difference you can level up your ability
you can level up your odds to have a
moment of enlightenment but the moment
of enlightenment is not something that
you can level up no it's it's it's
perfect yeah and then it goes right so
like like what we're talking about is
increasing the odds but we're not
talking like there's a big difference
between you know it's like how can I say
this okay so like in wow we've got
different colors of loot right yeah and
and so like at the end of the day like a
treasure chest has a certain like loot
table and so we can level up the quality
of our treasure chest just because we
are getting a high quality loot doesn't
mean that we're gonna get a high quality
loot next time it's like each treasure
chest is its own roll of the dice each
moment of enlightenment is a temporary
thing that has a one-time result you
have that moment of enlightenment or you
don't have that moment
right so I'm just pointing out that
there's a fluctuant there that's not
linear a flexion so it's not linear
right so it's not like a moment of
enlightenment it's not like you left up
and then you're enlightened more you can
level up to increase the quality of
chests that you get but at the end of
the day whether you get the moment of
enlightenment or not is still like a
variable like it's not yeah you don't
you well you don't have it all the time
yeah I think this is something that I
remember I think that it was like yeah I
think somebody has like Mother Teresa or
somebody like that what they what they
pray for and they said prayed for faith
and it was kind of a weird answer to me
because you'd assume that somebody who
is such a devoted you know servant of
God would not need to worry about that
no but even the most desert devoted
servants still also pray for faith yeah
is that kind of what you're saying
absolutely right so because I think of
faith what they talk about so here's
what I think a moment of enlightenment
and then is I'll sort of give you and
now I'm gonna give you a paradigm
instead of asking questions you're
welcome to attack or poke holes in it
okay so movements of enlightenment or
fluctuations of consciousness and
consciousness fluctuates right like we
know that consciousness you have
sleeping and you have waking and then
even in waking consciousness you have
different modes you have lazy
consciousness and you have non lazy
consciousness and the frustrating for a
lot of lazy people is that they're able
to do the right thing sometimes but then
we have the perception of linearly
levelling up and then they wake up the
next day and they're not able to clean
their room the way they were the day
before and they're like how the [ __ ]
does that woman because I could do it
yesterday I should be able to do it
today but no that's not how it works
because it's not linear it's just the
state of your consciousness at a
particular time allows you to do things
or not do things like sometimes if you
run away from the dentist and sometimes
you face the dentist and the interesting
thing is that you would assume logically
that like they're in the moments that
you face your dentists your fear is
lower and because your fears
that's why you're able to face them we
actually look at the data that's not
true your fear is always the same
sometimes you're able to conquer your
fear in other times you're not right
okay and so what's happening is that the
state like it's like now like it's not
that we level up our character it's that
like the controller that we're using
sometimes works really well and has
really tight controls and does what you
want it to and sometimes the controller
you're using is unplugged and when the
controller unplug is functional
controllers it's a really dysfunctional
control your character is the same but
like sometimes you can activate your
character and sometimes you can't
activate your character yeah sometimes
you can be you can overcome things and
sometimes you can I think that dichotomy
of instead of trying to lower your fear
you're effectively making your
controller better is that kind of what
you're saying yes right so what I'm
saying so like I'm just I'm trying to
point out to you that you say that you
have these moments of enlightenment and
like it's weird right because you're
saying they can happy happen when I'm
sad and when I'm gonna be and that's
like an odd thing odd observation but
let's not let our preconceptions shape
the data let's accept our data for what
it is and change our notion of how the
world works so moments of enlightenment
are independent of happiness and sadness
moments of enlightenment or temporary
there are things that you can do to
cultivate the occurrence or moments of
enlightenment which you can't ever make
them
you can't ever guarantee them I am all
too familiar with that getting loot in
World of Warcraft yep absolutely right
fundamental understanding come on yes
yes so you can set yourself up to get
whatever you know illidan's war glaives
or whatever that that first orange loot
was before weeks but there's nothing you
can do to like like you can set yourself
up to get that drunk don't like at the
end of the day there's a certain amount
of rnjesus involved and that's how
moments of enlightenment work right at
the end of the day you can't ever
8:1 so now the question becomes okay
hold on let me think about this so now
where do we go from here okay we were
talking about death you with me so far
oh absolutely okay so now I'm gonna hold
on let me just think
Oh huh hello okay don't yell okay all
right all right all right
apparently I'm destroying people to here
drive I guess I decided to yeah
apologize guys for you know destroying
your eardrums okay let me think about
this okay so now we figured out a couple
of moment actually beat some moments of
enlightenment right okay so then we were
also talking about laziness we were
talking about the fear of death do you
want to know what's weird is that I
think the moments of enlightenment and
enable the laziness tell me about that
well I mean I think that fundamentally
the understanding of you know kind of
eternity and infinity makes the current
problems that you have seem less
important
I think that really matter anyway you
know what I mean yes I think that the
moments of enlightenment this is subtle
I don't think the moments of
enlightenment actually encourage
laziness I think the moments of
enlightenment are hijacked by the part
of you that is lazy to justify its own
ends because during the moment of
enlightenment your laziness actually
decreases drastically what happens is
when the the laziness returns to your
mind it takes the experience of the
moment of enlightenment and it uses it
for its own ends I progressed
so it's a subtle difference but it's
very important so when you actually are
in a moment of enlightenment you're the
very opposite of wasy
yeah you're not controlled by your
emotions you don't seek distraction and
then what happens is the lazy [ __ ]
slides back in and he's like hey you
remember how you were enlightened
earlier if you were enlightened earlier
like we don't need to worry about
anything bro yeah yeah everything's
gonna be fine dude just don't just don't
worry about it it is what it is exactly
so but now let's think about it don't
worry about it bro
is that a thought that comes from the
moment of enlightenment or something
that it isn't the moment of
enlightenment I don't know that's a
really interesting question do you think
that it doesn't yes so I think that the
moment of enlightenment has a very
similar thought but in a completely
opposite direction so there's a huge
difference between apathy and detachment
so the moment in the moment of
enlightenment you can acknowledge that
things are as they are and you cannot
control them and that's okay and yet let
us and let us not be concerned about the
future let us do the thing that we need
to do now and there's a very very smooth
there's just a Razors Edge between
detachment which is letting go of the
consequences of your actions
not concerning yourself or being
controlled by the future and accepting
fully what is in the present there's a
there's
just a razor judge between them and
apathy which is the future doesn't mean
yeah the nihilism of good yep right so
it's it's a very subtle difference but
it's like it's soft but it's gigantic
it's the difference between what I would
call detachment which is Vairagya in
sanskrit and apathy III actually I
really like I like that a lot I I agree
I think that growing up I was just very
used to just detaching myself from
things and you know accepting things for
how they are and because of that I don't
really it's hard for me really to
motivate myself to do something because
I can just very easily not care about it
so there is a difference so I think
you're doing both I think growing up you
did both so there's a difference between
not caring right so like just think
about this so there's a difference
between not caring and and appreciating
what you need so I think when you were
growing up I do think you had moments of
enlightenment that's why I think you
grew you were a hippie despite being
poor because at the end of the day that
you know the end of the day what I did
for both the guy in jail and the
investment banker is teaching them
detachment and both of them got happier
has nothing to do with your external
circumstance yes oh I think what you
were able to do growing up is like wreck
like appreciate your life for what it
was even though it may not have been
good right there's a difference between
appreciating it for what it is and not
caring about it okay I think your not
caring is laziness appreciation and
acknowledging it for what it is is the
moment of enlightenment yeah I I I think
that is definitely a razor's edge and
it's like enlightenment versus nihilism
and oftentimes it's you know it's really
just making those moments of
enlightenment and everything making them
fundamentally more healthy in a moment
enlightenment is is perfectly healthy
you can't make it more healthy but you
can make more healthy is the
laziness that uses the moment of
enlightenment as ammo for its own ends
all right yeah right so that's the
complex that you need to work on which
is like what is that type of mind that
takes your moments of enlightenment and
uses them in the opposite direction from
what your moment of enlightenment
actually does yeah I don't really know
what that is
yeah right yeah I don't really know I'm
not sure okay so let's talk about it so
now we get to laziness okay okay so
we've sort of navigated moments of
enlightenment I feel tempted to ask
people a poll because I have no idea if
people are following what we're saying
um but anyway we can just keep going
okay okay can I think most will be able
to relate to laziness yeah so let's talk
about laziness so now now I want okay so
okay people are saying yes okay fix mic
okay all right so now let's talk about
laziness okay so let's talk about so
Zack what I'd like to do is help you
understand that your mind is not a
monolith that your mind is actually like
a 40 man raid and each part of your ray
does like different things and sometimes
you're gonna get a Leroy Jenkins in
there the laziness is like the Leroy
Jenkins when it takes all the other 39
parts of your mind that are functioning
well and it says [ __ ] you guys we're
gonna go and then it puts your mind in a
situation where like you'll and that's
when you that's like Leroy Jenkins is
the reason that you can't get out of bed
and listen to your alarm clock for three
hours because there are all these other
parts of your mind Leroy Jenkins is also
the reason why you know that there's
something that you should do which is
gonna make you feel better but then you
choose not to do it and continue
existing in the negativity there's a
thousand voices in your mind that are
saying the sangguk get the [ __ ] out of
bed and there's Leroy Jenkins going then
he just charges right in and there's
like [ __ ] rusty you guys right that's
what your mind is that makes sense yeah
okay no that's that's true I mean I
think that yeah there's always an
internal struggle and the worst part
about it is that you know you're
doing it when you're doing it like you
know you're [ __ ] yourself up you're
sitting there on your computer not doing
the [ __ ] that you need to do not doing
the work that you need to do and you
know you're doing it and you keep doing
it yes so how the [ __ ] does that work
honestly the best way that I've ever
found to understand it is because it's
just simply easier not to do it I can
sit there and I am in as you know the
Isaac Newton you know yes so so that's
that's hmm and also a really
insufficient understanding right so like
let me put it I'm going to rephrase it
when you say it's easier to not do it
I'm gonna recalibrate that as your mind
has like a behavior equation and it has
reasons to engage in the behavior and
reasons to not engage in the behavior
and they're a bunch of variables for
that equation and when you say it's just
easier not to do it what I'm translating
as is at the end of the day the behavior
equation is tipping into the negative
and not doing there's like a really
complex calculation and we can think
about like using the Benham right so we
have like when do we engage in the
behavior of using the meter like when do
you go to the bathroom I mean like what
I need to write but are there times that
you need to go that you don't go uh-huh
yeah I mean like if I'm in the middle of
something I'll put it off until then
exactly right so we can see that using
the bathroom has two variables how how
available was the bathroom and how much
do I need to go and there may be times
where you go because even though you
don't need to go it's highly available
and there are other times where you
really need to go and it has low
availability so you don't go to the
bathroom you know over time if you think
about like even using the bathroom
there's like a little counter in your
mind that is slowly ticking up and as
this as your bladder fills up with urine
like it's kind of interesting right like
you don't how much you need to go to the
bathroom it's not like zero to a hundred
percent it's linear your bladder fills
up to the to a certain point and the
and it starts to stretch that's like I
need to pee I did the same thing with
filling up my car with gas like I'll
literally wait for the the light to come
on and then it's like that'll be the one
time that I have to be somewhere in
eight minutes and I'll have to get gas
so like now I'm gonna be late and it's
like I think to myself I'm like bro like
you could have done this like while you
were driving the wind ease yesterday
afternoon when you had nothing better to
do
yeah but one time I need to do that and
I it's not doing it I keep doing it and
it's just it's just like why don't you
pee every hour it's because your your
body is not signaling it's like once we
crossed the bladder stretch threshold
then it's time to be and what you
perceive is laziness is that your mental
bloom is not being stretched until it's
ready to stretch and this is sort of
like well we kind of operate between and
let me know if I lose you okay so like
generally speaking gamers operate on an
axis of desperation and complacency and
there's like you're complacent and then
you get desperate and then you're
prompted to action and then once your
desperation goes away like you look back
at yourself and you're like wow I
studied like 18 hours in 16 hours and
that was amazing and like I can't
believe my didn't and then you go back
to being lazy you're like back into the
complacency and then now I don't have to
do it anymore
exactly so then you're back to
complacent so then complacent complacent
complacent complacent complacent bladder
is filling up filling up filling up
filling up filling up stretch and then
it's like oh [ __ ] I got to do all this
[ __ ] now I could have done it all that
during during that time but that's not
how we work so we have this really
complicated behavioral mechanism in our
mind that prompts us to do things and
not do things and it is my belief that
is the it is the lack of understanding
of that behavioral mechanism which we
interpret is lateness I I like that a
lot I think that that's a very good
metaphor yes I think that's very good
now let's think a little bit let's dig
in right so tell me about laziness
what do you mean by that I mean having a
thing that I'm supposed to do and then
okay let's stop I okay what do you mean
by supposed to do something that needs
to happen so like for example does it
need to happen well that's the
conversation I have in my head and it's
like actually ah you know we'll see what
happens
right because I've had the worst part
about is I've had times where I just put
something off for so long it actually
went away like this has happened before
and so it's it's bad to have that happen
because it really it's bad to have that
so now now that's just right because
like I think the first thing you've got
to do is recognize that your perception
of the problem is not actually what your
brain sees is the problem and we didn't
even get to the problem said there are
things that I'm supposed to do hold on
stop for a second what do you mean I
supposed because your brain is like bro
why the [ __ ] do you need to clean your
room it doesn't make a difference like
your brain is not gonna let you walk
five miles for a glass of water when you
can get it from your sink right like
your brain is fundamentally like this
the other thing is we're not lazy we're
efficient we're designed to be efficient
like kids do you know do you know why
kids skip wife gives skip school know
why they skip like you know what
skipping is like physically oh oh it's
kind of weird I like kids skip they
start skipping at some point in their
life and then they stop skipping like
what the [ __ ] is up with that then it
happens like what what age of kids skip
seven yeah it's [ __ ] weird what's
with that the reason that they skip is
because due to their height their muscle
and their beanies skipping is the most
efficient way to move there's a certain
like magical ratio when they're a
certain age where skipping is actually
like more efficient than like walking or
running and it's a very brief window and
once they like cross that certain
threshold they don't do it anymore and
here's the other thing that I weird
question you ever seen
kid skip no cuz they don't hit that body
mass ratio that's why fat kids don't
skip
it's like bizarre like our brain is
constantly iterating to make things as
efficiently as possible
I okay so do you feel like is obviously
there are certain people you know with
the the wide spectrum of people's like
sizes and muscle masses and everything
in adulthood do you feel like the reason
why people don't do it as much in
adulthood is because of the social norm
so skipping naturally disappears like by
the time you're like 12 right like you
don't see me major skipping okay
and that's just because it becomes
inefficient it's just an efficient way
of movement so it's it's completely
inefficient for an adult no matter what
you have adult are yep absolutely
it's like it and that's why they start
at 7 it's inefficient for a
five-year-old efficient for a
seven-year-old and like by the time you
hit 12 or 13 it becomes inefficient well
whenever you see people skipping usually
after like a really happy event happens
in their life you know I like you see us
in movies all the time how does that fit
into it is that just kind of because at
that point it's an emotional expression
it's good it's not a mode of movement
but like words will skip when they're
not happy they'll just skip like they'll
just yeah transit from one place to
another through skipping and it's just
like a weird phenomenon right like as
they just start doing it around the age
of seven and then they sort of like to
stop and some some fat kids do skip by
the way but yeah I'm sorry for asking so
many questions about this no idea yeah
okay I think that you're right about
being efficient I'm I've always been I
mean I'm so efficient now that you know
I found a way to have people pay me to
sit at home and play video games
yeah like I consider that this is the
pinnacle of my efficiency no absolutely
right and so it's also the pinnacle of
your laziness yes so like let's start by
sort of so you say it's things that I'm
supposed to and then then you say I need
right and then you use this word need
and where do you get the idea that you
need to because your brain is like hey
bro like in the past you've thought that
we've needed to do things and you turned
out to be [ __ ] wrong so why am i
going to invest all of this time and
energy to do something that is
unnecessary I'll give you a pretty a
pretty strong need and my teeth see that
missing teeth I'm also missing other
teeth that are easier to see or sorry
harder to see they're not gonna grow
back and it gets worse every day
why do I not fix it well I'm lazy and
I'm afraid of doing it that's
fundamentally what it is okay and like I
and and this is how lazy I I really am
these teeth are fake but I only fix this
side because I always look at this
monitor to stream with and I never
really look this direction on stream so
nobody really ever sees that one okay so
let's let's unpack a beautiful example
okay so let's think about this like so
what is your brain I'm gonna read I'm
gonna read I'm gonna re brain that out
of laziness okay you ready for it so the
first thing is like why do you fix one
side because your brain is like hey bro
we only really need one side because
this is the way that in streams so like
why would we fix both sides if we only
need one side it's pretty [ __ ]
ridiculous when you verbalize it isn't
it no it's not ridiculous at all what
I'm telling you is it's the exact
opposite of ridiculous it makes perfect
sense you even know why you fix the one
side because you only need to fix one
side well here's the problem though is
like I believe this is true too but then
I tell other people that and they think
that I'm crazy yeah so I want you and
everyone else at home to start with the
default of you're not crazy because very
few people in the world are crazy just
because you don't understand how you
work does not mean that you're
malfunctioning this is the biggest
problem with our entire generation agree
with you entirely by a hundred percent
agree they assume that ignorance be
hums malfunction when it has been my
overwhelming experience that like the
world makes sense and that human beings
operate like not randomly like we're not
random right we have all these organ
systems we have a brain our brain is a
super complicated organ it's not a super
complicated organ it hasn't grown itself
evolved to be this malfunctioning organ
it's in fact the exact opposite our
brain is a hyper functional organ which
has allowed us to dominate the earth and
like Hubble into space and we think that
the thing is fundamentally busted
because it doesn't want to fix a one
side of your mouth like no man like your
brain has a damn good reason and you
even know what that is so now let's work
good I'm very good at intellectualizing
things for me not to do because well it
is a good reason in that context but if
you only eat with one side of your mouth
let me tell you there are problems that
that causes sure and yeah and ultimately
I just don't think about those problems
and that that's it and so even though I
know it will become more and more of a
problem as time goes on I just kind of
let it happen
yep yeah I think that's really okay just
stop talking for a second sorry they're
just just once I I don't want to lose
because you're saying so much good [ __ ]
I literally have to write it down
because I need to respond to it so once
I wore it no problem
I know sometimes this comes across as
being an [ __ ] I really don't mean
that but like you were just talking
about pure gold and the answer is right
there so I really want to capture this
okay I'm used to dealing with [ __ ]
all day this is not actually being an
[ __ ] trust me okay
yeah okay okay I'm pulling it closer to
me and the gain is down okay thank you
okay okay feet oh [ __ ] I lost damn it
don't me say what I said before
nope
you
okay okay yeah keep going now okay so
yeah I think that's kind of what happens
is I will do something and even though I
I know that it will have a bad long-term
effect I will just do it because the
short-term effect is worth it to me and
you know for for some degree I don't
really like I don't like going to the
dentist it'll make me take time off of
streaming so it would just be easier for
me to just simply put it off and
intellectualizing these problems and
thinking them through and rationalizing
well I can I'm really good at this I'm
really good at that it's the same as I
can video games you know you have like
one person that's really good at doing
you know spell that you know casting
magic spells and another person who's
really good at you know shooting a bow
and arrow and I always intellectualize
this is I'm very good at doing certain
things and very bad at doing other
things okay
I completely agree yeah so this is what
we're gonna do okay hold on a second
okay I'm gonna do a little bit of a
screen show okay I'm gonna actually try
to draw out an equation for you okay do
this I'm gonna switch and then I also
have to screen show you a screen not do
that
you can't see this can you not right now
no you right-click the transcript yeah
there we go now okay can you see me okay
yes and you guys okay so now we're gonna
we're gonna unpack the behave we're
gonna call this laziness right so tell
us that this problem is gonna be
why doesn't Jack get his teeth fixed
right so your answer is because I'm lazy
and scared oh well no no no no no no no
no okay we'll get there because you're
lazy right this is the conception that
you have okay so let's think about let's
think about I'm gonna put an equal sign
here I don't know exactly how this is
gonna work cuz I'm working this out okay
so like let's say that oh actually let's
let's do it this way let's do a plus
fallin and a minus call
okay so reasons to see see the dentists
and reasons to not see the cons okay so
like in so what we want to do is like
either this is gonna be this way or it's
gonna be this way
right it's gonna be either more so and
then basically as long as you're winning
this it's gonna be a complete mess okay
so as long as it's this way this means
you don't see that that de stright yeah
and and as long as this is what you're
doing we call this lazy do you see that
Oh conclude like if you're gonna let
this you call it lazy right yeah okay
so so let's think about reasons to not
see the dentist you're afraid okay
reasons to see the dentist your teeth is
broke yes
okay so that
let's think about this for a second so
you have the capacity to not think about
things and distract yourself right yep
so what do you think if I were to I'm
just kind of run with me for a second
right so like what distraction does is
essentially decreases the value of this
variable yeah pretty much do you see
that okay so the better you are at
distracting yourself what happens to
your laziness or it goes up absolutely
right so like yeah
for us gamers like here's the problem
there's like boomer distractions which
is like one downward arrow and then
there's video games which are designed
to make you forget so what video games
actually do is they shot off the parts
of your brain that experience negative
emotion so there's huh if you ever had a
day where like your internet didn't work
and it was like the most productive day
of your whole month
I think that's yeah I actually haven't
sorry but I can totally get behind what
you're saying yeah because I remember
days where my internet didn't work and I
just painfully tried to distract myself
in tons of unsatisfying ways but still
ended up procrastinating that's honestly
my recollection of days when entire that
didn't work I didn't have a computer I
didn't become productive
I just distracted myself and enjoyed
myself less yeah I sometimes I'll
actually have a very productive day if I
my computer stops working or my internet
stops working because there'll be
nothing else for me to do yeah that's
really awesome I'm glad you can have
that experience I think unfortunately
many people don't have even that
experience so let's let me ask you this
okay so now let's think about it's more
and more of a problem so there's more
and more of the problem go on the plus
side or the minus side whoa I mean like
it'd go on the plus side absolutely yeah
why is it doing this thing
[ __ ]
you
there we go okay so now we're gonna
learn something really important about
the brain okay when it comes to the
brains behavior thing how does it rank
future rewards versus presents I mean to
ask mobile game developers this you know
the instant gratification is king yeah
so I want you to understand that that
like there's something funny going on
right like you say it's more and more of
a problem in that it's gonna be a
catastrophic it's gonna be catastrophic
in the future so you wouldn't think that
a catastrophic result in the future is
going to bias you towards action today
yeah but here's the funny thing is like
the further off in the future it is the
less important it becomes because that's
just how our brain works right like the
animals that survive are the ones that
like sort of bias themselves towards the
president like when when there were
primitive human beings who are being
faced by tigers and if they thought a
little bit like if they thought in that
moment about okay like if the tiger
attacks me and I lose a limb I won't be
able to harvest or so my fields so like
that's gonna be a real problem like no
like that's dumb like the the human
beings who survived were the ones who
faced the immediate problems right and
so like the the issue here is that sure
it's gonna be more of a more of a
problem in the future but like today
what do you do instead play video games
absolutely right
so so just because it's gonna get worse
and worse every day that's not actually
a reason for you to like do something
about it today it just means that you
don't have to do something about it
today because you can do something about
it tomorrow
and then tomorrow rolls around and you
can do something about it tomorrow so in
a weird way yeah right
right yeah so let's think about a couple
of other things
oh yeah so let's like think about this
right so like so let's think about one
side of the mouth okay so if we change
this to one side of the mouth like if
we're thinking about one side yeah the
mouth how does that change your equation
because like then is there an immediate
benefit of getting your teeth on one
side of your face fixed yes there is is
that way right yeah it would help this
stream I I don't there I'm fine
portraying myself as a degenerate but I
do draw the line that missing teeth
right so it's like what the interesting
thing is that then what happens is like
today moves over here
yeah and then once today moves over here
what do you do just forget about know
what whenever you get it fixed right cuz
you by that's oh yeah yeah right yes so
that's that's why guys like there's an
immediate benefit to it which is that
when you stream you're not gonna look
like a complete degenerate in life and
like this this isn't gonna make you look
like a complete degenerate for a long
time but like you don't want to look
like it you're okay with looking like a
complete degenerate a year from now your
brain is even though it terrifies you
right and this is the other interesting
thing is that the more emotions that you
pack in based on your future failures
how does that affect our diagram as you
think about being a degenerate in the
future what do you think that does to
your laziness uh well it depends I mean
like it could make you want to be less
lazy because you wouldn't want to be a
digital right in the future or you could
just put more of it off into the future
and think I you know what you know
that's not happening me right now I'll
deal with that then okay so let me ask
you a question great answer where -
which column does shame going less lazy
or more lazy both okay
excellent so let's think about how can
it be both well I mean you go to the
dentist and they're like you know they
tell me about other stories about other
people who have had the same problem and
it's like yeah this person was addicted
to crack this person was homeless or
whatever and then it's me yeah this
person was just lazy I mean you kind of
feel like a jackass okay so how does
that prompt you does that tip the
balance towards doing something or away
from doing something away from because I
you know self.cards even confronting it
yep so shame goes over here right
the funny thing is that like the more
and more of a problem is it is that
increases your sense of shame and as
your shame increases you you become more
lazy does that make sense um yes it does
I think there's there's another like
weird kind of circumstantial variable
with this which is they told me that
they were gonna have to pull out all of
my teeth and then now they're telling me
that they're not cuz I'm seeing a new
dentist so before the reason I didn't
get it fixed as I just said [ __ ] it
they're gonna pull them all out anyway
I'll deal with it later and you now yeah
I have more of like a immediacy of
fixing it okay yes so so now now we can
see like so you see how today puts it in
this column and future puts it in this
column so you're even saying I have more
urgency because like you can't yes
become less future-oriented it's become
more present oriented yes
okay well because I thought before the
damage was already done and so it was a
guy you know what who cares right now
there's no alteration there's no
alteration over your trajectory if the
damage is done so why would you rent it
yeah
that's it's lazy eats but yeah okay sure
it's annoying to eat so so now now I'm
gonna ask you so like now the question
Zack is like okay so all this stuff is
is great all ocher dr. kay
what the [ __ ] do I do about it right so
let's think about this for a second okay
you know how can I adjust these
variables to tip the balance in the
other way if I want to do this like this
if I want this to happen what do i what
can I do to this equation to like make
the arrow tip this way lose the shame
absolutely right so now that's why
that's why I showed people on my stream
so that's who one is Shane okay when I
step you chain okay sure except one uh
III think be less afraid okay you know
in my kind of the in the same is like
there's a moment of enlightenment
there's also moments of courage okay
okay take aim and your thumbs so we're
actually gonna put moment of
enlightenment over here right so let me
ask you when you have a moment of
enlightenment what is it due to your
laziness well we were talking before
about how it kind of hi Jackson laziness
so I Jackson after work not during them
or during it um yeah III think I I
usually just I do what I need to do
right
exactly good way to San yeah so moment
of enlightenment goes over here so the
laziness paradigm we'll talk about in a
second but then what else can you do to
anything else that you can see in this
equation that we could adjust to
decrease your laziness
a lot of ways that you could say it but
make that the future the future is more
finite and so because it's more finite
then this is not the way I'm going to
represent Oh perfect
right yes and now now you said there's a
lot of ways that you can say this is the
first thing that I want to point out to
you is doing this logically doesn't help
right telling yourself that you
shouldn't be ashamed or that you
shouldn't have fear and logically trying
to overcome your fear or play around
with this philosophizing laying in your
bed how does that affect your laziness
it really doesn't very thinking about
your emotions does not actually change
them okay so thinking and telling
yourself I need to be focused in the
present does not change it right like
now we get to Vidya and yawn Vidya
doesn't change behavior or very rarely
but it's not a good predictor of
behavioral change
yawn is a changes through experience
right so like like this is where there's
a shift in mindset to be present focus
versus future focus and this is like
what all the Buddhists are talking about
like what there wasn't a philosopher
it's become a philosophy it's become
something that's posted on Instagram
it's become something that's tweeted but
Buddha wasn't teaching philosophy he's
not a philosopher Buddha was like a
personal trainer for the mind he was
saying there is a systematic process to
take your mind from here and move it
here there's a systematic process of
changing your mindset to be present
focused as opposed to future focused you
can literally train your mind huh okay
you're looking at it more functionally
absolutely it's all functional and then
we have so on the opposite side of
functional is something that the
psychotherapist stumbled upon and they
said that if we actually sit with a
therapist and talk about your fear and
shame something magical happens people
start putting their lives together it's
[ __ ] weird like
I can talk to someone like I it's weird
I can talk to someone about you know how
they were bullied in high school and
then they start eating out I mean eating
healthy and working out and the reason
it's like not connected at all it's not
like they're coming in and talking to me
about like because sometimes they do
that people will come in and they'll say
like how do I start working out and then
I give them a plane right I say like
okay you need to wake up every day
here's your personal trainer you got to
go to the gym eat these kinds of
calories and then what happens act when
I give them a plan for being healthy
they stop on January 2nd absolutely
right because that's not a workout plan
is like maybe a little bit over here but
it's very small it's tiny
well it's it's an emotional you have to
overcome and emotionally I agree with
that I know that like so one way that I
overcame this with like keeping my house
clean is that I live with my mom and I
remember I was showing it was like
something that I had done for her
recently and someone said that you know
well you should be doing this all the
time because you're letting your mom
live in a [ __ ]
which is like for me this is the norm
but I thought to myself it's like I am
doing that and I should be doing that
and that emotional webberley
revelation it wasn't like logical the
emotional revelation of knowing that I
was allowing this to happen to her has
caused me to be much more proactive and
keeping the house clean and making
things like you know I there were like
holes in the wall where rats were coming
through and I cover all those up and I
kept it clean because I realized that
what I was doing and the laziness that I
was exhibiting were it was something
that was hurting somebody else okay it
was selfish
so now we're gonna understand three
things me is over here yeah other people
he's over here what do you think about
that
yeah I'd say that's right
so the first thing is you said that you
had to overcome emotion so now when
you're kind of saying like you know at
the beginning of this conversation you
were like talking about death I don't
think is gonna be productive and I
completely agree with you because
overcoming emotions is not thinking
about emotions you use the word and it
is AK I think you understand this stuff
really well because of your language use
the word emotional revelation a
revelation is not a logical conclusion
do you see that it's like like
revelation doesn't imply a logical
thought process it implies a white hole
in them it literally of Revelation is
revealed and revealed is something that
you are the recipient of not something
that you take action you are
fundamentally not control when it comes
to emotional revelation it is the loot
box all over again
it is the chest it is the moment of
enlightenment I think I've had that
happen a few sorry guys good okay yeah
sorry okay working on it yeah that
happened a few times with like different
situations and the point where you know
things that used to bother me just for
whatever reason stopped bothering me
yeah like that's weird right like how do
we even deal with that like what's up
with that oh I think it depends on the
thing I used to be very self-conscious
about the way that I looked and then I
think that as time went on I just
accepted it and it was who I got you
know I am Who I am okay so that's so so
now like like okay so now like you're
really starting to sound like a
meditation catalog is that bad or good
no I mean it's great like this is why
this is what would that was saying but
it's not philosophy and it's not stuff
that you retweet retweeting it doesn't
matter but acceptance goes over here
right well it it's fundamental
acceptance right like I'm very very
skinny and I used to like not want to
take my shirt off in the pool or
whatever and I think that this might
sound bad boy people making fun of me
about it all the time on on Twitch and
like just constantly like giving it to
me and just [ __ ] with me about it
like I just eventually got it sounds
like whatever you know like I'm not
gonna apologize to these people so Who I
am yeah so so that that is do you see
how you used to have shame and then you
move towards acceptance somehow but it
wasn't logical it wasn't like you woke
up one day and you said hey this is
gonna I'm gonna they're gonna keep on
making fun of me until I get used to it
and then my thick my skin will get thick
and then I will accept that I'm skinny
that's not how it works it's a
revelation it's something that happens
to you it's not something that you do
okay right and now we get to the root of
lazy because what we're talking about
here is that you cannot actually do
anything
it's about stuff that happens to you
it's not about logically working through
your fear and your shame it's not about
it's about Revelation right it's about
mindset these are things that happen to
you they're not things that you do and
now we get to this idea of like the
reason that you believe you're lazy is
because you believe you're in control
but you're not in control you can't
actually get your teeth fixed what you
can do is potentially see a therapist
and roll the dice to see if you can
cleanse the fear deep off in the shame
debuff you can roll the dice or you can
train yourself to be present focused
instead of future focused and each of
these things that you do like look at
this equation what do you think is gonna
happen with lazy oh I think it'll go
down if I lose those two things
absolutely and then you'll start acting
so it's not that you're lazy it's that
your behavioral equation calculates you
to inaction
and the problem is that you don't
understand any of this stuff because
like here's the biggest problem is that
like this is all a black box right this
is what we see yeah and so then we just
call it lazy and so it's no surprise
that our entire like you note which is
like super lazy why are they super lazy
it's because they have a ton of fear and
shame they don't understand they think
in the future like just think about this
for a second they're always thinking
about the future one day right they're
thinking about the future and this is
the other thing so past it's back here
to they think about the future and they
think about the past they have a case of
the shirt of what it could is and the if
onlys if only this or only this I should
do this I'm supposed to do this I need
to do this all of those should is not in
the present it's in the future if only
is in the past it's not in the present
the other problem that they have and I
know you want to jump in but I'm feeling
that right now so I'm gonna keep talking
do it
keep Duffy the other thing is that
they're always focused on me and that
doesn't mean that they're selfish it
means that if I were to literally
catalog the number of thoughts in their
mind the number of thoughts about
themselves far outweighs the number of
thoughts about other people
doesn't mean that they're good thoughts
they're just egocentric it's I'm a piece
of [ __ ] I'm lazy I should do this I
should do that that person is so awesome
and even when you say that person is so
awesome if it's an appreciation of that
person it's not about you even when they
think about another person it's in
reference to themselves it's actually a
thought about themselves it's a thought
about themselves even whenever they're
thinking about somebody else because
it's a comparison there are two ways to
think about other people
one way is it is a comparison like oh
that person is so awesome the other one
is appreciation an appreciation makes
them feel good in comparison makes them
feel bad so even when they think they're
thinking about other people they're
always making comparisons to themselves
and so literally the percentage of time
that they
spend over here is 90% and they only
spent 10% of time thinking about other
people and that's what I was saying
about the selfishness exactly and now we
think about da da mo which is due to
your responsibility because you aren't
worth it right especially like if you
have fear and shame your value as a
human being is pretty low therefore
you're not even worth investing in the
thing that gets you to to clean up your
place is a sense of duty for your mom
and you're like I can visit my it's ok
if I live in a [ __ ] because I'm me
but it's not ok for my mom to live in a
[ __ ]
yeah and that thought is not like a
logical thought it's also like a
revelation well I thought about this I
actually you know I have no regrets
I don't even regret letting my teeth rot
out because the reason why I started
streaming and what motivated me to try
so hard with streaming is that I knew
that if I didn't do that and I wasn't
successful I wouldn't have any teeth I
don't regret a single thing yeah so and
I I don't really regret any of these
things happening and III don't I do
think that it should be more about like
other people too though and and I feel
like that's kind of what's ended up
happening is that I've tried to focus
more on being like being not really a
servant to other people but being a [ __ ]
what's the word for this
to fulfill the purpose that way yeah you
haven't since are much your street
screamer's yeah what you're describing
is done right like you stream because
like you are the thing you streamed for
them because you're trying to send them
a signal that you can be a [ __ ] in
life and still have a life worth living
that's the tournament that's why you
stream that's a reason to be proud of it
and happy yeah absolutely
so like you need to show them that yeah
and and that's what I was so upset about
whenever I had taken two breaks and in
my stream I had felt like I had lost
them yes I no longer had that that thing
that just motivated me you know whether
you have a good day or a bad day you are
gone the next day because there is a
purpose and the goal that's greater than
yourself it's not just about you it's
about what you represent who you are and
the idea so if we look at the equation
of that there's something very important
there which is that generally speaking
we operate when it comes to ourselves we
move away from pain and we move towards
pleasure we try to avoid pain and we try
to seek pleasure but the cool thing
about Dharma is is like Dharma is what
allows you to say whether I have a good
day or I have a bad day I have to keep
streaming it's not about whether it
hurts or not I need to do it for that
yes right and so like that's the
beautiful thing is like Dharma is in in
my sense a pretty good answer to
embracing the negative or embracing the
things that are hardened and the biggest
problem that people have nowadays is
that like they tend to retreat from
things that are hard or painful yeah and
and so in your case like your fear of
the dentist like the reason that you're
not going to the dentist we can look at
anything in that equation right so one
is you can talk about your fear of the
dentist and if you talk about your fear
of the dentist and you process it it'll
start to wither away and then you'll be
able to go if you think about okay for
Who am I getting my teeth replaced
because if I'm getting them replaced for
me
it's not worth like like what I would
encourage you to really think about zach
is like right now there are what sounds
like tens of thousands if not like over
a hundred thousand people that watch you
and there is something in their life
which is their equivalent of not getting
their teeth replaced and what you owe
them is for you to get your teeth
replaced and then share with them
something about your perspective of like
even if it's like like you desert like I
don't know exactly what that is but I
think this is what you must contemplate
this isn't logic this is consolation
scroll journey huh Joseph Campbell's
heroic journey what does that mean the
hero that leaves the village and brings
the Boone back from the adventure and
then he brings it back to the village
and empowers the entire village yeah and
make them all stronger together so you
need to get your [ __ ] teeth fixed
yeah because you were giving them an
excuse to not fix their marks mm-hmm
that's not something you can continue
doing anymore
that makes a lot of sense yeah that does
make Watterson's
yeah
yes I do
I I think that's really what it comes
down to is making sure that I can be
that that representative and I can be
that person it's a mantle that they have
given you with their viewership in their
time and it's not something that you can
afford to disappoint them in and it's
not just that it's you know like little
bits and pieces of [ __ ] in my stream
that I don't have happen in the right
way and events that I have just like
fallen through and I haven't planned out
properly many things like that sure but
yeah each of those things be careful
because you call it [ __ ] I don't
think it's [ __ ] there's another
equation there with things that keep you
from acting when you say I have trouble
fully committing I make plans yeah
that's because it's not because you're
lazier that you're a [ __ ] it's because
there's some complicated process going
on there and the general variables are
gonna be you versus someone else future
and past versus present and negative
emotion there are also all kinds of
other things but those are the three
things that I think like or like I would
really encourage you to think about and
as you unburden yourself those are the D
pops it's like you're you know you're
razz debuff like having shame about your
life is like having a resurrection
debuff and you're just not going to be
functioning only yeah right and then
there are some things that you can do
like eat healthy which is like just like
wow like there's like food and potions
and stuff that you need to use to
prepare for a raid and if you meditate
every day occasionally you'll get
moments of enlightenment which will give
you like an understanding which will
just wipe away something that holds you
back occasionally yeah but from a
neuroscience perspective we can't count
on that happening because we haven't
figured out how to make that happen yet
well we do understand is that even from
a neuroscience perspective it's like
getting a Stoneskin potent like it's
gonna protect you a little bit eating
healthy or good circadian rhythm
exercise meditation hanging out with
other human beings
sunlight an absence of substances all of
these things are going to be buffs can
you explain why whenever I was not stree
I would wake up at 10 p.m. and I would
play video games all night long into the
morning eating fast food and I was
completely euphoric
yeah so I what do you mean by euphoric I
was incredibly happy there's nothing
wrong I knew exactly what was gonna
happen the day was gonna be great and
the only thing that really pulled me out
of that was the like external variables
like you know knowing that I like it
can't last forever I guess in a way so
was euphoria existential or emotional
both I think I was doing what I wanted
to do so that sounds hedonistic is
opposed to existential to me so that
sounds like a pleasurable life but yeah
overtime would have led to an empty one
and that's what I always you know like I
had and I completely agree with you
because you know like I've told people a
lot of times I never really want to grow
up etc and people told to me they're
like yeah well you don't have to you
know you can just do what you always
have done and it's like that's true but
yeah I know exactly what you're saying
is it will lead to emptiness in a long
run so here's what I think I think for
most people they think about it how long
was that time period oh wait three
months and before that I mean like there
were time periods like that for years
but we were happy every day for years
every day no not every day but most of
no I'm not talking about emotionally I
mean like heggs essentially it in what
way like can you were you fulfilled
during the years that you were doing
that fulfilled um yes and no in some
ways yes in some ways oh I feel like I
wasn't making enough like videos or
content I wasn't creating enough yeah so
that's yeah so that's where fulfillment
comes from so like I want you to
understand this there's a different axis
and this is what I call spiritual so
there's a spiritual happiness with which
the Buddha calls Duke which means
suffering so he uses the word suffering
because suffering is not an emotion
right so there's like contentment and
suffering which is on one axis and those
are above the axis of
individual emotions like you can be sad
and content and you can be suffering and
joyous yeah right there's a laying poor
and not be right so so those are
different axes so here's what I think
about your three months temped I think
that most people think about vacations
is something that you do for a couple of
weeks I think some people take vacations
for months and what I'm hearing from
your three months in is you are
basically on vacation and vacations been
four years yeah so you may you may be
someone who has a four year vacation
right like that's okay like I think it's
fine to be hedonistic for a time and
enjoy yourself and also to be favored in
the will huh not according to my death
yeah so I don't think that you were
quite as fulfilled as you think you are
but I think that it's fine to be
hedonist they can fulfilled at the same
like I mean that's okay for periods of
time like I love it like sometimes I
will just let myself go man yeah you
know sometimes it's it's an amazing
feeling like I'll be like yeah I'm gonna
get like I'm gonna eat [ __ ] Taco Bell
and I'm gonna play games until like 1:00
in the morning
and it's awesome because my you know I'd
love to do that for weeks at a time but
I tend to get a day every now and then
but I think it's fine to be hedonistic
hedonistic isn't bad like hedonistic and
fulfillment is possible but I think it
tends to be temporary because I think
over time like there's gonna thats gonna
decay and then you'll start to feel
empty well it's like if you have a day
off that's really exciting but if you're
unemployed it's not exactly beautiful
and yeah right so I think I and so I
think I think if we really dig into your
four-year period I would be very
surprised because I think you also were
good at distraction right so you're
probably like pretty good at suppressing
things so there may have been discomfort
or existential dread or look basically
suffering yeah that you were distracting
yourself from and and you know you kind
of it's easy to get confused with like
you know eating fast food and playing
video games and the dopamine
like dopamine is like separate from
fulfillment mm-hmm
so that's my take on it yeah I think
that's probably true I I feel good about
it sometimes I think that there's also
like a degree where it's like you do
that for years and I felt really good
doing it like 19 and 20 and then it was
kind of weird whenever I was like 23
there's something and still doing it and
like I had had like jobs like off and on
but for the most part I pretty much did
nothing and I went to college and I have
a college degree but I mean I didn't
really ever give a [ __ ] about that I
mainly did that just to get my dad not
to get mad at me and I guess yeah I feel
ya it would be something that I kind of
just would do in order to like forget
about things and then every once in a
while would take a peek in like the real
world we're like I was in like my time
capsule of existence yeah it's like yeah
my friends are now like they have a
house or that you know back then they
had like you know now you're graduating
college and for me I'm not really or at
that time and you know I'm just kind of
clowning around and I'd feel like other
people were moving forward with their
lives and doing things that you know
we're meaningful and meanwhile I was
just stuck there playing video games and
even though I had chosen that there's a
there's like a certain I don't know like
sadness yeah so I think that it's right
at the edges right it's there but right
at the edges so I would I wouldn't be
surprised if it wasn't at the edges when
you do two or three month vacation I
think it like you can still feel
fulfilled but I know I was the same way
like I wouldn't trade it for anything
like I remember my third or fourth year
of college I was there for five years
cuz I failed a bunch of classes but my
third or fourth year I remember my
friends had a had a house and I I stayed
at the frat I mean I lived in a frat
house but like they were used to game
together and I would basically like go
there everyday like I would get up in
the morning like I was gonna go to class
but I only had classes like three days a
week but I would get up at the same time
and I was somewhat functional then and I
would go to their house at 8:00 in the
morning
I brought my PC over there
I still remember I had never had coffee
from a coffee pot like a like a drip
coffee machine yeah for whatever reason
like I you know I just you know I didn't
grow up drinking it or anything and so
then like I still remember how delicious
their coffee was I would like go to
their house at eight in the morning I
would make myself a cup of coffee and it
was awesome and then I would start
playing video games at like 8 a.m.
instead of going class on Tuesdays and
Thursdays I would go there and I'd play
video games and then a Mazda Monday
Wednesday Friday I would like wake up
and I would go to class and as soon as I
was done I would like finish it like
noon or something I'd pick up some kind
of food and then I'd go to their house
and I'd play video games and I just like
lived this amazingly hedonistic
lifestyle that was just so much fun we
would hang out and ha
why'd you stop um and it sounds great
yeah I mean I I think I stopped because
I couldn't keep doing it because you
just knew like eternally yeah so like 50
year old around I think I was in fourth
year and fifth year old around and then
I realized that I basically had when I
started my fifth year of college I had
two years left I started I I finished my
sorry I started my fifth year as a
junior and then I was like I just cannot
stand like I've been ignoring this for a
long time but I can't be a sixth year
senior I just can't like fifth five
years of colleges of croquet yeah but
six years is just [ __ ] pathetic it is
I remember I had a friend of mine and he
logged on one day in the world of
warcraft and he said to us he was like
guys I'm quitting and I've been in
college for five years I need to get my
life together this is ridiculous and I
can't keep doing this goodbye and he
would before this brag about how he
would keep he would retake English one
or the psychology when I forgot which
one the freshman class so he could hook
up with freshmen girls every single
semester and like apparently his friend
watches my stream and the guys getting
married now yeah so in my case it was a
girl involved too so I was dating a girl
who I was really really into and and and
also like she didn't
know that like she thought I was gonna
be graduating at the end of year five
and so like I just couldn't face the
shame of like telling her that I'm still
not done so I just I mean when it came
to that my fifth year I just completely
busted my ass and and basically did one
year of college each semester so I took
like twice a normal course load and just
so gained actually yeah but you know
just I was like that's enough like I
can't I mean even in the depths of my
shame it's just like I can't I can't do
that to myself enough is enough
yeah yeah I've had kind of the same
thing happen before whenever I was in
high school I think I graduated with the
2.5 GPA and I would actually I would not
do certain assignments like I like I
would get my like the progress report
and it would tell me like how much each
different assignment would be and like
what the grading would be for it and I
would math out how to get like an 81 or
something like that and I would just
plan out which assignments would take
the most time and I could put the least
amount of effort into and I would like
to figure out an equilibrium for that
and just not do I've ever didn't as
little work as possible
there's your laziness yeah it's not
laziness its efficiency that was very
efficient right didn't do a [ __ ]
thing yep yeah and so I don't know like
I I think that's the problem is like I
do get rewarded for the laziness Sherman
pretty regularly why is that
well I mean Bill Gates did say if he
wanted a problem done he'd hire a lazy
person to do it because they'd come up
with an easy solution so here's here's
what I think Zac I don't think laziness
is a problem I think laziness of the
kind that we described in terms of
unpacking it and if there are emotional
things that are holding back those are
problems but I think gamers are [ __ ]
brilliant
so when I work with videogame addicts
what I do is hook them up with
internships at MIT I take this guy who
has been out like hasn't graduated
college and I dumped him in an AI
startup at MIT and then I say go for it
bro and then like the turnaround is
amazing
and it's like like we're not like
laziness is not a thing and and like I
don't think it's a problem that you're
lazy and in the truest form of laziness
because I think laziness is an umbrella
term that covers a lot of these
emotional things in future thinking and
like fantasy and all this other kind of
crap
but there is part of it that is just the
laziness of efficiency yeah and and I
think even in terms of healthy game or
like the people like basically everyone
who works for us or people better form
our community and what happens is like
you take these guys who are like rejects
and then you you like give them like
something to do that challenges them and
makes the world a better place and it's
amazing what they've accomplished and so
I don't know I don't accept you know I
think laziness is fantastic like
laziness we we are such a lean and mean
startup because we're all lazy and we
have no resources and it really is
amazing like we would have lost so much
money if we went the VC route because we
would have done stupid things well I'm
glad that somebody can see the light you
know what's the time like I tell people
that and I think that I'm crazy and yeah
I I'm very good at being lazy I've
gotten I've had 29 years of experience
yeah so I yeah so there's a dark side I
think to it which is what I'm really
trying to temper absolutely so I agree
that you don't want to you want to be
efficient lazy but you don't want to be
umbrella lazy right so like it's not an
excuse for not getting your teeth taken
care of you know and and it's not an
excuse for some things but I think at
the end of the day if you want to like
eat fast food for a couple months and
game for a couple months and like that
works out you're not really letting
anyone down then by all means do that
take a break yeah I think that helps me
a lot to just all I kind of mentally
reset I I'm not really I'm probably more
introverted than I am extroverted and I
think my stream kind of fulfills that
extroverted need sure and an app that I
want to be the introverted
you know troll that just lives in this
cave and that's about it
well yeah anyway so I'm gonna have to
wrap up in a little bit like any other
questions like I mean I'd love to shoot
the [ __ ] with you it's fun but I just
want to make sure that we kind of got to
the things that you want to do I think
that we pretty much covered everything I
donate this is like it it's it's like
the roots of a problem it's like a
massive tree and there's all the
branches one changes to the other
branches you know my camera not working
on stream etc yeah you know that kind of
stuff and so I I think that's actually a
great way to conceptualize it because I
I don't want anyone to think so this is
the big problem that people have is they
watch stream and then you know they see
like asmin gold was had all of his
questions answered and they think that
you're fixed they think that what we do
on stream is we fix people we're not fix
it like we haven't fixed you we're just
all we've given you is a road map and
you've taken one step and each of those
branches needs to be dealt with like
that's when you're fixed yeah I I think
that's true I mean there's no it's more
or less giving somebody a tool but they
have to do the job absolutely
so speaking of tools sometimes I teach
people how to meditate on stream are you
interested in that sure what's doing let
me just think about if there's a death
oriented meditation we can do I
I really love I've gained some of my
most understanding that I have from the
techniques around death and you know
earlier when I was saying like when we
were talking about death and like where
knowledge comes from I've had some
really amazing experiences around white
life and death when it comes to
meditating I'm just trying to think
about you know what can I teach you that
will prepare you for learning a death
oriented technique
okay so I'm gonna teach you something do
you meditate uh not not consciously no
okay I mean what-what do you mean by not
consciously then what what do you do
sometimes I just sit there and I think
about things and I kind of let my mind
wander and you know you you just you
think about so many it's kind of like
cascading uh I guess like series of
importances and your wife and you're
like thinking about less and less and
less important things until you're just
not thinking about anything okay that
sounds pretty good
okay so I'm going to teach you something
that we've taught oh let me think about
this
you
so we're gonna do just a quick
diagnostic test why are you laughing
listen AFK of your brain go afk um so
yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna do a quick
diagnostic test and then based on that
I'm gonna teach you one of two
techniques okay all right so one eye so
close your eyes and I want you to notice
the breath in your nostrils and can you
tell if one nostril is more open than
the other miraculously they seem to be
the same but if I had to guess I'd say
the left one is more open yeah okay so
pay attention to it for a second and
check yeah yeah it's more of a left one
that's one of them okay now what I want
you to do is imagine your left nostril
like a circle okay
and
and what I want you to do is see if the
breath has a certain direction within
your left nostril like it's all going to
be pointing out but is it stronger at
the tip versus kind of where your
nostril hits you're like meets your face
towards the middle of your nose or the
outside of your nose does that leave me
yeah the the towards the face and middle
face and middle okay so like if we were
to think about your nostril as a clock
face with 12 o'clock being the tip does
that make sense to you does that analogy
make sense or mmm 7:00 p.m. okay perfect
so this is a good mystery medication
right so yeah just sit up straight okay
so oh man okay so just notice that for a
second could just keep noticing while I
try to figure out what to teach you next
so this is a good diagnosis okay so this
does work right so my instincts were
spot-on but now what do I do
you
okay so now what I want you to do just
keep keep your eyes closed I'm gonna
describe a couple of things I don't know
if you're gonna be able to do it today
okay I'm gonna give you sort of a lot to
work on okay so the first thing that I
want you to think about for a moment is
that there's a difference between lazy
Zac and moment of enlightenment Zac that
the lazier you are the more Zac you are
the more asmin gold you are and in
moment of enlightenment you're not
really that same person does that make
sense yeah okay so now what I want you
to do is pay attention to the person
that you are when your breath is at a
particular o'clock position okay and and
what I want you to do is throughout the
day notice which of your nostrils is
open and then notice which o'clock
position you're at and see if you can
discover any differences in the person
that you are depending or correlating
with which which o'clock position and
which nostril is open okay okay so it's
not something we can do today because
you're gonna have to collect a lot buddy
yes it's very longitude and then I want
you to the first axis that I'll give you
but by all means explore other things
like you can explore your emotional
state and things like that but the main
axis that I think I want you to really
pay attention to is is the axis of like
moment of enlightenment versus like
apathy it's like detachment versus
apathy it's like laziness versus being
able to do or whatever you want to
future versus present like any kind of
axes that you want to just try to pick
an axis and I think the most important
one is is the one that's like moment of
enlightenment versus like lazy Zach
and then the last thing that I want you
to do which will give you it can kind of
anchor your practice is do you live can
you see the Sun can you see the sunset
or sunrise where you live hmm almost
yeah okay so if you can try to figure
out when sunrise and sunset are and like
for 10 minutes before sunrise in ten
minutes before sunset no let's say five
minutes before I want you to try to go
outside and do this practice and just
notice what happens and then the last
piece of the practice that I'll give you
I'm giving you normally these things are
done sequentially last piece of the
practice that I'll give you is try to
figure out so I'll just leave you with
this is as you start to understand what
is constant and what is changing about
you I think you'll start to understand
more about death but that okay okay all
right could take a while so that things
are to notice you know which nostril is
open in which part of the clock your
breath is going in you can do that
several times a day I would even
encourage you to like use a journal or
something to take notes and try to feel
who you are in those moments and then
five minutes before sunrise in five
minutes before sunset whenever you can
manage it go outside and then just pay
attention to who you are
and what I'll kind of leave you with is
that there will be some parts of you
that would fluctuate in some parts of
you that may stay the same and try to
just try to understand that what about
you fluctuates and what about you stays
the same okay that makes sense so now
let's check in for a second and notice
the breath again are we still working
with left area we see the left gang yes
we were still left again
are we still seven o'clock yeah okay so
just see when that changes try to check
in an hour okay okay right sounds good I
can do that yeah all right that's an
interesting way to look at it you know
it's a level of awareness that I'm not
used to having yeah I'll say that sure
yeah good yeah I probably I'm gonna use
that almost to try to sleep anyway I
think that's a good idea focused on very
small things that you know are kind of
relevant I feel like helps me you know
sleep sure yeah okay well is that is
that how is that the meditation that I
should do yep okay yeah I will try and
do that all right yeah cool man
any um go ahead sorry no you can I'm
just gonna say like any last thoughts or
questions or any I'm curious too I mean
what did you think about our time
together I thought it was really helpful
I think the breaking down like all the
different components to how you know
laziness manifests itself and what the
different tricks your mind plays on you
and you know the you know the kind of
like laziness and efficiency being two
sides of the same coin
absolutely and that that metaphor I
think was really helpful and I do really
think that you do good work here on
Twitch and that's why I was I was very
eager to come on and and and help be a
part of it I think this is something
that's really important and I think
everybody here is very thankful for that
including myself thank you yeah well I
appreciate I really appreciate you
coming on and it's a minute you're just
a really like thoughtful guy and and
it's it's it's a pleasure to speak with
you and kind of you know work with you I
I think I've given you maybe you know if
you need some help around the meditation
technique let me know because I kind of
dumped a lot on your plate usually I
teach something a little bit more
discreet and just tell them you know
focus on this thing but I think you'll
be able I think you'll like this
technique a lot yeah thank you very much
and yeah good luck to you and and I
really do hope or uoq are you okay with
can I put a burden or expectation on you
and can we recognize that that could add
to the plus or it could add to the mine
side of the column sure go ahead and and
that's that I think you need to get your
teeth fixed yes I this I have a
temporary tooth and honestly like I need
to get that fixed and I've been kind of
hoping that after the quarantine is over
I would do that and so I think that now
it's it's getting pretty close to that
time and III need to fix some of them
because I'm worried that they'll fall
into the category of needing to be
pulled or whatever very soon yeah so
this is uh this is something that weighs
definitely on my mind and and one last
thought that I have is that if you're
you know time passes and over there's an
acceptable amount of time that can pass
and if if there's an unacceptable time
that passes before you get it fixed
then maybe we should have another
conversation yeah I can see that okay so
like today we've talked about the route
maybe one day we'll talk about one of
the branches yeah
all right that makes sense okay yeah
thank you very much thank you Anna
yeah I look forward to that if it
happens but I hopefully in Korea yeah
hopefully I'll be able to fix it
thank you very much I really take care
of I talk to other piece alrighty okay
so that was fun
yeah I understand like you know so
people used to call it hasn't been gold
the raid boss my god I don't I don't see
it what do y'all think he's a good guy
man all these guys are good guys
everyone's saying Mitt Jones and it
shows this great dude
like I saw it
Ellis is fantastic too I'm like I know
that these people have had trouble but
like I mean we all have struggles but
like there's such solid people dude I
don't know I don't know what you know I
I don't know I just don't see it okay so
listen guys thank you guys very much for
coming on thank you guys hopefully that
was helpful um it's interesting we've
been doing a lot of you know I feel like
I've been doing a lot of like teaching
mode recently in terms of pulling out
the iPad and drawing out diagrams and
stuff I apologize for my handwriting but
hopefully it's helpful and I think
sometimes it's useful to you know see
things on paper and yeah and I want I
would you know really ask you guys to
think a little bit about what we
unpacked with laziness and like don't
just judge yourself for being lazy like
cuz that's gonna contribute to the shame
which in turn is gonna increase your
perception of laziness it's gonna move
you towards inaction
right that's what laziness that when we
say oh I'm lazy what that means is that
you don't act and inaction is not like
it's not a personality trait it's like a
behavioral equation and understand what
the components of your behavioral
equation are and work on them because
something magical will happen like
that's how people like you know it's
weird to say like someone turned their
life around like how the [ __ ] does that
work what's how does that work like
there's some system behind turning your
life around it's not randomness right
there's science and laws of at least
neuroscience and physics and and
whatever like maybe psychology maybe
sociology but there's an order like
we're human beings and there's like a
way that we work we have a controller
and if we learn how to use the buttons
then we can do what we want without a
character and I think what laziness is
is an inability to understand what your
buttons do like you don't know how you
work and so like no wonder you can't do
the things that you want to be able to
do but like I need to do it yeah but
what are the reasons that you're not
doing it right because there are good
reasons and the problem is that people
ask the question Oh what are the reasons
that I'm not doing it and then they say
I don't have any good reasons but that's
incorrect if you're not doing it
that's a data point that signifies that
you have a good reason to not do it
you just have to find what that reason
is and then you can dismantle it
it's the invalidation of your reasons to
not do something that prevents you from
actually doing it because you say oh I'm
done
like I'm just lazy like I don't have a
good reason like if someone asks you
like why don't you get your teeth fixed
like Zach's answer is gonna be because
I'm lazy that's not a good answer
there's like a really good reason why he
doesn't get his teeth fixed and you have
to really respect what holds you back
and just really think about that like
you have to respect that which holds you
in place because otherwise you're never
gonna be able to overcome it it's such a
powerful opponent right and you guys
start by like disrespecting your
opponent and then you doom yourself to
failure respect what holds you back
respect that if you're going nowhere in
life there's a damn good reason for it
and then once you like treat it with the
respect that it deserves then you're
gonna be way better at dealing with it
respect your problems and respect
yourselves and thank you guys very much
we're gonna take next week off from
streaming and then we're gonna do a
bunch of DLCs on on Monday the 22nd we
have Yvonne from offline TV on Wednesday